# Domain-based gene mining for phylogenetic database construction

This repository contains one Python script: gene_mining.py, and dependencies.py

## Phylogenetic analysis toolkit


#### dependencies.py
This script checks the dependencies required for running a specific program. It verifies the presence of both Python libraries and external programs in the environment.
To run the script, open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where the dependencies.py script is located. Then, use the following command:

```
python dependencies.py
```

#### gene_mining.py
This function receives a list of fasta files and uses the hmmscan program to generate a database for each input file of the domains present in each sequence contained in the files.

This function receives the database generated by the pfam function and filters the sequences that contain the domain specified by the user. Then, the filtered sequences are analyzed by the pepstats program from the emboss package, deeploc2, mafft, CiAlign and iqtree2. At the end, a database is generated containing the sequence data, such as species, genome assembly, sequence ID, sequence length, isoelectric point, subcellular localization, and also a phylogenetic tree separated in another file.




## Requirements
To use the filo.py script, you need to have the following programs installed:

- HMMER (hmmscan)
- EMBOSS (pepstats)
- deeploc2
- Signalp6
- DeepTMHMM
- MAFFT
- CiAlign
- IQ-TREE

You also need to have Python 3.x installed, along with the following Python modules:

- biolib
- biopython
- pandas

## Attention

To use the filo.py script, make sure to have the necessary programs installed.

Note that this script was developed for research purposes and may require modifications to adapt to different scenarios.
